Jehovah's people are hard at work. As our organization continues to expand, the
need to identify and train qualified brothers as overseers grows. The February
2024 study edition of the Watchtower explained, for decades the brothers of the
governing body have been training men from among the other sheep to take the
lead. For example, they organize many schools to train elders, traveling
overseers, branch committee members, overseers at Bethel and others. In harmony
with these efforts, at the 2022 annual meeting it was announced that there
would be a new school, principles of divine oversight. This program would train
Bethel and construction overseers, as well as younger brothers with good
potential, to follow the divine pattern of oversight exemplified by our God
Jehovah and his son and our King Jesus Christ. Let's take an in-depth look at
this upbuilding course. The four and a half day curriculum includes recorded
lectures from members of the governing body and insightful comments from
seasoned overseers from around the world. It also includes 12 stimulating workshops
and these workshops allow the brothers and in-class to be able to just interact
together and have some very lively discussions. Those 12 workshops are divided
into three sections. Select, train, trust. So yes, while the school is aimed at
helping an overseer to improve his personal skills, he must also be able to do
those three things. He must be able to select, identify brothers who have
potential for the future, train them, have a plan and implement a training plan
and then trust them by assigning them responsible tasks and sharing his
experience with them. When you get to the workshop discussions, despite that in
adequacy, what you see is all the brothers are feeling the same and you get an
opportunity to talk to more experienced brothers, but you see that they're
facing the same thing as you. So those discussions really were opportunities for
us to shop in each other and keep each other going. Along with engaging
discussions, there are 70 true-to-life videos. They provide good and not-so-good
examples of oversight and action and it covers a broad section of Bethel and
construction settings. The videos range from dealing with feelings of being
overwhelmed to shepherding remote volunteers and commuters to delegating like
Jehovah and Jesus Christ. In addition to overseers and assistant overseers, young
brothers with fine potential are invited to attend as well. Why cast a wide
net to include in the school younger brothers who are not yet assigned as
overseers? Young brothers are being asked to take on more responsibility at a
younger age and rolling them in PDO. It gives them the tools that they need to
be successful in the assignments that they're given. The recommendation was for
overseers, for assistant overseers, of course, to be invited, but also in there,
younger brothers and experienced brothers are also asked to attend. And so you
have a nice mix. You have a mix of experience. You have a mix of inexperience and
what that does is it gives you a well-rounded out class and it just leads to a
good learning experience all around. Because of my limited experience at first,
I was shocked to see that I was invited, but really getting to see how Jehovah
was investing in me really encouraged me to want to put forth more effort and
try to get back to the organization. Even though customs may vary from country
to country, divine principles of oversight are universal, applying in every land.
How have the students benefited and what have been the results at the branches?
The class helped me to appreciate that to accomplish my assignment well. It's not just about
hitting deadlines or accomplishing the work more is involved with that. It really
highlighted that Jehovah's priority was always the welfare of his people. So that
should be my priority, the people. So people couldn't be full of things like
efficiency or productivity. And the class taught me there are lots of things I can improve on.
Things like helping the brothers and sisters to enjoy their assignment more. Things like
training and delegation. And just getting to know the brothers and sisters better, their personal
circumstances and supporting them. Because when the brothers and sisters are happy, then the work
takes care of itself. It's always been good to work with my overseer. But after you into the
PDO school, it's become even better to work with you. One thing I've noticed after the PDO
school is the way he handles queries. He takes time to listen to me and he listens to the words
that I'm saying and even the emotions that I'm showing. And then he asks, what do you think we
can do? I know with my overseer, I am trusted. And he values my opinion because a lot of times he
uses it. And even if he doesn't use it, the way he listens to me makes me feel that I'm valued.
Usually for people to go learn oversight or learn management,
lots of books and years of studying. To put all of that into one week was really what made the
school special. Seeing the priorities of a good overseer, someone who's focused on not only
the work and the assignment but more focused on the people and following Jehovah's example of
shepherding and then training those under direct oversight. I appreciated the emphasis placed
on an overseer being a loving shepherd. The people are the most important resources in his
department. They are the only assets that Jesus died for. Brothers are able to adjust their mindset
towards their role as overseers, towards their role as shepherds, both at Bethel and the departments
and the congregations that they serve in. This school, it's clearly a tool that Jehovah is using
to help us not just to fulfill our responsibilities right now or today, but it's a tool that Jehovah is
going to continue to use into the new world as we fulfill our responsibilities then.
Blessings are not only seen in individual departments, but radiate outward bringing
refreshment to the branches and spreading to the entire brotherhood. Jehovah promised at Isaiah 60
verse 17, instead of the copper, I will bring in gold and instead of the iron, I will bring in silver.
Instead of the wood, copper, and instead of the stones, iron, and I will appoint peace
as your overseers and righteousness as your task assiners. By mentioning overseers and task assiners,
Jehovah foretold that gradual improvements would come and the way his people were cared for and
organized. Principles of divine oversight is a powerful tool to ensure that loving oversight
continues to be provided at Bethel and for theocratic construction projects around the world.
In a very tangible way, we see evidence of the governing body's determination to train qualified
brothers of the other sheep to provide guidance for Jehovah's people even after the last of the
anointed are taken to heaven. We thank Jehovah for refining his people whom he has chosen to take